docs(v2.2): publish v2.2 feature docs (#483)
arcus-azure/arcus.testing: docs/versioned_docs/version-v2.2.0/03-Features/04-Azure/04-Storage/02-cosmos.mdx

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Cosmos DB

> The `Arcus.Testing.Storage.Cosmos` package provides test fixtures to Azure Cosmos DB storage. By using the common test practices 'clean environment', it provides a temporary collections and documents.

Author: Rewrote that here: https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.testing/pull/483/commits/af35ddafd4155a2df032d0a2d5fd500c2ca711ec

## Installation
The following functionality is available when installing this package:

```powershell
PM> Install-Package -Name Arcus.Testing.Storage.Cosmos
```

<Tabs groupId="storage-types">
<TabItem value="mongodb" label="MongoDB" default>

:::info
Make sure that the test client that interacts with the Azure Cosmos DB storage has at least [`DocumentDB Account Contributor`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles/databases#documentdb-account-contributor)-rights if the test needs to create/update/delete collections.
:::

### Temporary MongoDB collection

> The `TemporaryMongoDbCollection` provides a solution when the integration test requires a storage system (collection) during the test run. An Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB collection is created upon setup of the test fixture and is deleted again when the test fixture disposed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TemporaryMongoDbCollection` provides a solution when the integration test requires a storage system (collection) during the test run. An Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB collection is created upon setup of the test fixture and is deleted again when the test fixture is disposed.
```

> ⚡ The test fixture automatically uses an existing MongoDB collection - if exists, but does not remove it if it was not responsible for creating the collection.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

ResourceIdentifier cosmosDbAccountResourceId =
    CosmosDBAccountResource.CreateResourceIdentifier("<subscription-id>", "<resource-group>", "<account-name>");

await using var collection = await TemporaryMongoDbCollection.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(
    cosmosDbAccountResourceId,
    "<database-name>",
    "<collection-name>",
    logger);

// Interact with the collection during the lifetime of the fixture.
IMongoCollection<Shipment> client = collection.GetCollectionClient<Shipment>();
```

> 🎖️ Overloads are available that takes in the `IMongoDatabase` for custom authentication mechanisms. By default, it uses the [`DefaultAzureCredential`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential).

> Upserting documents in the collection can also be done via the test fixture. It always make sure that any upserted documents are removed (if new) or reverted (if existing) afterwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upserting documents in the collection can also be done via the test fixture. It always makes sure that any upserted documents are removed (if new) or reverted (if existing) afterwards.
```

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

await using TemporaryMongoDbCollection collection = ...

await collection.UpsertDocumentAsync(new Shipment { BoatName = "The Alice"  });
```

:::praise
The `TemporaryMongoDbCollection` will always remove/revert any MongoDB documents that were upserted via the temporary collection itself with the `collection.UpsertDocumentAsync`. This follows the 'clean environment' testing principal that any test should not leave any state it created behind after the test has run.
:::

#### Customization

> The setup and teardown process of the temporary collection is configurable. **By default, it always removes any resources that it was responsible for creating.**

Author: ```suggestion
The setup and teardown process of the temporary collection is configurable. **By default, it always removes any resources that it creates.**

```

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

ResourceIdentifier cosmosDbAccountResourceId =
    CosmosDBAccountResource.CreateResourceIdentifier("<subscription-id>", "<resource-group>", "<account-name>");

await using var container = await TemporaryNoSqlContainer.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(
    cosmosDbAccountResourceId,
    "<database-name>",
    "<container-name>",
    "/partition-key-path",
    logger);

// Interact with the container during the lifetime of the fixture.
Container client = container.Client;
```

> 🎖️ Overloads are available for custom authentication mechanisms. By default, it uses the [`DefaultAzureCredential`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential).

Upserting items in the container can also be done via the test fixture. It always make sure that any upserted items are removed (if new) or reverted (if existing) afterwards.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

await using TemporaryNoSqlContainer container = ...

await container.UpsertItemAsync(new Shipment { Id = "123", BoatName = "The Alice" });
```

:::praise

> The `TemporaryNoSqlContainer` will always remove/revert any NoSQL items that were upserted via the temporary container itself with the `container.UpsertItemAsync`. This follows the 'clean environment' testing principal that any test should not leave any state it created behind after the test has run.

Author: ```suggestion
The `TemporaryNoSqlContainer` will always remove/revert any NoSQL items that were upserted via the temporary container itself with the `container.UpsertItemAsync`. This follows the 'clean environment' testing principle. This means that any test should not leave any state it creates behind after it has run.
```
